WEEK 1, 1 18/2/19
Didn't really achieve anything this class. It was essentially a get to know what's going on with the class this semester and get our computers organized.
Adon did give us the task of figuring out what we want to do for project this semester, and said that we should pick one that we would like to do, but also
have an extra one organized for the event where our selected project isn't available.
WEEK 1, 2 21/2/19
Found out what project I was in, and had to move computers to the area where our team would set up.
WEEK 2, 1 25/2/19
We had a look through some of the previous member's documentation regarding the temperature sensors, and had a crack at making a few of them ourselves, using the
documentation as a guide. The documentation itself was quite good and I only got stuck on a small bit regarding the keys the devices had to be assigned.
WEEK 2, 2 28/2/19
We had our first scrum as a team today, and we discussed certain tickets and how the team was going to get through with it. I ended up being assigned to creating a
website for Linus, one of our clients, that would display the information being sent from the temperature sensors we created in the previous class. After doing a bit
of research and talking to the other members of the team who were here last semester, I found out the devices used an MQTT broadcast to send the data. Unfortunately, none
of the team knew more than that, so I talked to Tom and asked if he could provide some information about how the devices actually send information. He provided a rough but
understandable diagram of how the nodes sent information through the gateway to the LoRa server, and then how it was sent through the MQTT Broadcast, before being saved in a
database. With that in mind, I began working on the website for Linus.
WEEK 3, 1 4/3/19
On Monday, I continued my work on the website for Linus, and began researching on how to get an MQTT Broadcast onto a website. After some searching online, I found a helpful
tutorial which ended up being created by Tom himself. After following the tutorial, I had the website recieving MQTT broadcasts, however it was receiving everything that was 
being sent through the LoRa server. After talking to Tom again, he provided some more assistance on getting the website to search for specific MQTT Broadcasts, and after some tinkering,
we had the website displaying the information from the temperature sensors.
WEEK 3, 2 7/3/19
I ended up spending today tinkering on the formatting of the website, because I had it only decoding the information from the sensor, and the formatting on that was readable, but
it wasn't what I was after. After doing some tinkering on the JS side of the website, I had the data being split into 3 different parts, which I then could format to fit the style
I was going for on the website. I also talked to Martin about getting a repository set up on GitLab so that we could host the website online, and so that the other team members could
access it themselves if they wanted to use it for their own nodes.
WEEK 4, 1 11/3/19
I was unable to attend class today, due to being sick.
WEEK 4, 2 14/3/19
Had to play a bit of catchup after losing some time to being sick earlier in the week. So today I continued working on the website for Linus, mostly debugging with the node we were getting
to send the data via MQTT on, since it kept dropping packets for some reason.
WEEK 5, 1 18/3/19
Had a scrum regarding the way the whole group was heading. Apparently it was looking like the team wasn't doing much, as we weren't really commiting to gitlab, so there wasn't much evidence on
what we were actually doing, apart from actually seeing what we were working on. We discussed how the server was sending and receiving data.
WEEK 5, 2 21/3/19
Martin ended up bringing up an idea for a "Database Webapp", which would be able to host the information from all of the nodes we've made, and display it to be able to look through it easily.
Since I'm into the web side of things in the group, I decided to take on the challenge, and began putting a simple HTML site together. 
WEEK 6, 1 25/3/19
I've continued work on the database Webapp, converting the site from HTML to a python webapp, like what I'm currently learning in Web 3. I chose this as I found out from Tom that the data is stored
in a MongoDB database, rather than something like MariaDB, which I already had experience working with. Because of this, I've had to done a lot more research on how to actually connect to the database,
since I can't find any information in our repositories.
WEEK 6, 2 28/3/19
I asked about the Dev Ops team today to see if anyone would be able to give any information about connecting to the database, since I was still having issues doing so on my application. I ended up getting
referred to Isabel, who apparently did the kind of thing I'm doing last year, and had some documentation regarding it which may help me. I ended up contacting Isabel about the documentation, since it wasn't
showing up in our repositories for the IoT Project.
WEEK 6, EXTRA 29/3/19
Ended up volunteering for Age Concern on Friday, although it didn't end up going anywhere. I arrived 2 minutes early after trying to find a park close by,
and went in. However, the office was locked and I couldn't find anyone in the building. I ended up waiting for an extra 10 minutes before leaving as nobody
showed up, and I wasn't able to help out.
WEEK 7, 1 1/4/19
Finally caught up with Isabel today, and she showed me how to connect to the MongoDB database, and retrieve information from it. Afterwards, I finally managed to get a connection working, and I had the information
from the database reading into a console readout, which is a huge step towards the first ticket for the data webapp. I've begun tinkering with passing the data through to the website I've got, and I managed to get
all of the data actually on the page, although without formatting.
WEEK 7, 2 4/4/19
Continued work with the database webapp, formatting the information on the screen. I finally got it formatted and closed the ticket for getting the data onto the webapp. However, That opened other tickets for me such
as getting the all_data page working, since I could only get the data on the page if you entered a node's name.
WEEK 8, 1 8/4/19
Today I found out that the repository that Martin created for the Iot Data webapp was public, and the app.py file contained sensitive information for logging in.
I've ended up fixing that problem, and began work on trying to format the data for all of the nodes saved in the database. However, I feel like I'm going to have
to find a different strategy for getting information from the database, as after a 'quick' test, it turned out the webapp would take 5 minutes to load the data and
display it to the screen. I feel like this wouldn't be acceptable as a final result, so I'm going to research better ways of accessing MongoDB, which will hopefully
take less time than what I've been using currently.
WEEK 8, 2 11/4/19
Currently Reworking the parsing information from the db to the website, as due to what happened on Monday, I figured it wouldn't be acceptable for a webapp to take 5
minutes to load the information from the server, every time you load the webpage. I've changed it so the webapp loads the data when it's first turned on, and then simply
grabs the required data when the page is loaded. Currently I'm testing to see if that works.
MID-SEMESTER BREAK, WEEK 1
Didn't really achieve much on project work this first week. I ended up spending some time catching up with some friends, working on other class assignments, and having to go to work for some of the days, which didn't leave
me with much energy or time to work on the project work.
MID-SEMESTER BREAK, WEEK 2
I ended up spending some time working on my portfolio, which I plan on hosting on Github pages once I've organized everything for it. In relation to my project work however, I haven't continued working on it yet, but plan
on returning to it once the semester resumes.
WEEK 9, 1 29/4/19
Continued work on reformatting the data from the database onto the webapp. I've managed to get information back onto the webpage after reformatting how the data is loaded from the database into the app itself, but however,
I'm only currently getting one result when I load the page, so I'm trying different methods on getting the data onto the page now.
After working with it for a little while longer, I have the data loading to the page, however it is only the latest result from each node, rather than every single reading from the nodes. I'll continue to look at this later,
as I've run out of time for it right now.
I've also sent Fletcher some information regarding the MQTT website I created earlier in the semester, since he wanted to add the information to the BIT IoT Project page.
WEKK 9, 2 2/5/19
Martin gave me a hand with getting the data passed into the website today, and while doing so helped point out a major flaw with the method I was using to get the
WEEK 9, EXTRA 3/5/19
Volunteered at Age Concern again, as per Kerri's request, since the people originally going weren't able to make it. I was given some more information about how to find the proper location this time, so that
I wouldn't get a repeat of last time. After arriving and finding out what was going on, Nick and I sat down and helped a gentleman out with some issues he was having with his computer at home.
We spent a good 50 minutes helping this guy out, and he seemed very thankful for all the help we had given him when we were done. He did say there were some other issues he had, however he didn't have the time
to go over them, since he had to catch a bus afterwards.
In the end, Nick and I ended up leaving at about 2:15 since the ladies in charge said that they should be fine, and there wasn't any more clients coming in that day. They were very thankful for us coming in and
helping out however.
WEEK 10, 1 6/5/19
Got the data moving to the front end, however decoding it from the JSON file returns undefined in all fields. Another problem I encountered was limiting the amount of data going through from the backend.
Unfortunately, the data is stored in segments, depending on the device, so using the .limit() function that is included with MongoDB only limits the amount of devices being selected from the database.
I think I've come up with a solution however, but I'll have to implement it later since I've run out of time for today.
WEEK 10, 2 9/5/19
Whole team went to Orokonui Ecosanctuary today, to test out the functionality of the gate sensors and to test the GPS range of the devices to the gateway, which was going to be connected
at the workshop area of the Ecosanctuary. We ended up going throughout the area, looking at what they had currently for the gates, and seeing if our devices would be easily installed into them,
or if we would have to do some retrofitting onto the gates. We also got to see a Kiwi, which one of the staff had collected from a roosting box to quickly show us, which was cool.
Unfortunately, I did have to leave sooner than the rest of the team to make it to my other class, so when I left they were just setting up the gateway for the server.
WEEK 11, 1 13/5/19
Today I got the .ENV file working for the webapp, which has helped optimize my workflow with the webapp. I've also managed to limit the amount of entries going into the frontend from the backend. So I'm now going to work on
fixing the decoding error I'm getting with the frontend Javascript.
And it's done! I've finally managed to get the data to show on the website. Although currently you can't search for a single device. I've started a new ticket to begin my work on getting the information
for a single device to show, and once I can get that functionality working again, I can add a searchbar/dropdown list for our devices to search for this again.
WEEK 11, 2 16/5/19
Talked with Martin about organizing a few more User stories for the data webapp.
WEEK 12, 1 20/5/19
Continued work on the all data page and the navigation for the page. I've got a navbar working currently however I'm not sure if I like the look of it, and may change the style of it later, possibly changing it to a sidebar
instead, which may work better for user accessibility.
WEEK 12, 2 23/5/19
Added some nicer formatting to the node data page, giving a cleaner look to the tables. I've also added the option to toggle the visibility of certain nodes, allowing a user to see information for multiple nodes they wish
to see. 
WEEK 13, 1 27/5/19